so let us write a function minJump by passing the array arr and
its size n and it returns the minimum number of
jumps to reach the end which will be an integer
We need to create a new array to store the
minimum number of jumps required to reach each index
So write int jump of n also declare iterating variables I and J
Next we need to solve all these sub problems
We know that we can directly reach index zero
So we need to mark jump of zero as zero
So write jump of zero equal to zero
Next let us fill all the remaining indices with
maximum value so that whenever we find a minimum value
we can replace it
So write a for loop for i equal to one I
less than n I plus plus
And in each iteration set jump of I equal to
int Max
Now we have stored the result of jump of Zero
We need to calculate the result for all remaining indices
so write an outer for loop from i equal
to 1 to i less than n
And to find the minimum jump of each index we
need to check all the previous indices
So write a inner for loop from J equal to
0 to J less than i now we need to
check whether we can reach index I from Index J
with array of J steps
For that we can write if condition
If array of J Plus J is greater than or
equal to I
equal to I we can reach index I
So we need to update jump of I and what will
be the value of jump of I It will be the
minimum number of jumps required to reach jump of J Plus
one
So write jump of I equal to jump of J plus one
But we also need to check jump of J Plus
one is lesser than the already existing value in jump of I
If it is smaller than jump of I we can
update it
Otherwise we can skip it
So add the if condition before the statement
If jump of J Plus one is less than Jump of
I the for loop will calculate the minimum number of jumps
required to reach each index one by one and the
final result will be stored at the last index that
is in jump of n minus one
So finally returned the overall result jump of n minus one.